@node Configuration
@unnumbered Configuration file

Example YAML configuration file:

@verbatim
spool: /var/spool/nncp
log: /var/spool/nncp/log
notify:
  file:
    from: nncp@localhost
    to: user+file@example.com
  freq:
    from: nncp@localhost
    to: user+freq@example.com
self:
  id: TIJQL...2NGIA
  exchpub: CYVGQ...PSEWQ
  exchprv: 65PUY...MPZ3Q
  signpub: 2NMVC...CMH5Q
  signprv: 555JD...RGD6Y
  noiseprv: D62XU...NKYPA
  noisepub: KIBKK...ESM7Q
neigh:
  self:
    id: TIJQL...2NGIA
    exchpub: CYVGQ...PSEWQ
    signpub: 2NMVC...CMH5Q
    noisepub: KIBKK...ESM7Q
    sendmail: [/usr/sbin/sendmail]
  alice:
    id: XJZBK...65IJQ
    exchpub: MJACJ...FAI6A
    signpub: T4AFC...N2FRQ
    noisepub: UBM5K...VI42A
    sendmail: ["/bin/sh", "-c", "false"]
    incoming: /home/alice/incoming
    addrs:
      lan: "[fe80::1234%igb0]:5400"
      internet: alice.com:3389
  bob:
    id: 2IZNP...UYGYA
    exchpub: WFLMZ...B7NHA
    signpub: GTGXG...IE3OA
    noisepub: EQAZM...J3NBA
    sendmail: [/usr/sbin/sendmail]
    freq: /home/bob/pub
    via: [alice]
@end verbatim

@strong{spool} field contains an absolute path to @ref{Spool, spool}
directory. @strong{log} field contains an absolute path to @ref{Log,
log} file.

@strong{notify} section contains notification settings for successfully
tossed file and freq packets. Corresponding @strong{from} and
@strong{to} fields will substituted in notification email message.
@emph{neigh/self/sendmail} will be used as a local mailer. If either of
@emph{from}/@emph{to} fields are omitted, then no notification will be
sent.

@strong{self} section contains our node's private keypairs.
@strong{exch*} and @strong{sign*} are used during @ref{Encrypted,
encrypted} packet creation. @strong{noise*} are used during @ref{Sync,
synchronization protocol} working in @ref{nncp-call}/@ref{nncp-daemon}.

@strong{neigh} section contains all known neighbours information. It
always has @strong{self} neighbour that is copy of our node's public
data (public keys). It is useful for copy-paste sharing with your
friends. Each section's key is a human-readable name of the neighbour.

Except for @emph{id}, @emph{exchpub} and @emph{signpub} each neighbour
node has the following fields:

@table @strong
@item noisepub
Must be present, but can be dummy (only zeros) if no online
communication using @ref{Sync, synchronization protocol} will be used.

@item sendmail
An array containing path to executable and its command line arguments
that is called for mail sending.

@item incoming
Full path to directory where all file uploads will be saved. May be
omitted to forbid file uploading on that node.

@item freq
Full path to directory from where file requests will queue files for
transmission. May be omitted to forbid freqing from that node.

@item via
An array of node identifiers that will be used as a relay to that node.
For example @verb{|[foo,bar]|} means that packet can reach current node
by transitioning through @emph{foo} and then @emph{bar} nodes. May be
omitted if direct connection exists and no relaying is required.

@item addrs
Dictionary containing known network addresses of the node. Each key is
human-readable name of the link/address. Values are @verb{|addr:port|}
pairs pointing to @ref{nncp-daemon}'s listening instance. May be omitted
if either no direct connection exists, or @ref{nncp-call} is used with
forced address specifying.
@end table
