\input texinfo
@documentencoding UTF-8
@settitle NNCP

@copying
This manual is for NNCP (Node to Node copy) --  collection of utilities
simplifying secure store-and-forward files and mail exchanging.

Copyright @copyright{} 2016-2017 @email{stargrave@@stargrave.org, Sergey Matveev}

@quotation
Permission is granted to copy, distribute and/or modify this document
under the terms of the GNU Free Documentation License, Version 1.3
or any later version published by the Free Software Foundation;
with no Invariant Sections, no Front-Cover Texts, and no Back-Cover Texts.
A copy of the license is included in the section entitled "Copying conditions".
@end quotation
@end copying

@node Top
@top NNCP

NNCP (Node to Node copy) is a collection of utilities simplifying
secure store-and-forward files and mail exchanging.

This utilities are intended to help build up small size (dozens of
nodes) ad-hoc @url{https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Friend-to-friend,
friend-to-friend} (F2F) statically routed
@url{https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Darknet, darknet} networks for
fire-and-forget secure reliable files, file requests and Internet mail
transmission. All packets are integrity checked,
@url{https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/End-to-end_encryption, end-to-end}
encrypted, explicitly authenticated by known participants public keys.
@url{https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Onion_routing, Onion encryption} is
applied to relayed packets. Each node acts both as a client and server,
can use push and poll behaviour model.

Out-of-box offline @url{https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Sneakernet,
sneakernet/floppynet}, @url{https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Dead_drop,
dead drops} and @url{https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Air_gap_(networking),
air-gapped} computers support. But online TCP daemon with full-duplex
resumable data transmission exists.

NNCP is @url{https://www.gnu.org/philosophy/pragmatic.html, copylefted}
@url{https://www.gnu.org/philosophy/free-sw.html, free software}
licenced under @url{https://www.gnu.org/licenses/gpl-3.0.html, GPLv3+}.
It should work on all @url{https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/POSIX,
POSIX}-compatible systems. Easy integration with existing
@url{https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/SMTP, SMTP} servers. Single
@url{http://yaml.org/, YAML} configuration file.

Why create yet another store-and-forward solution when UUCP, FTN and
even SMTP exists? Look in @ref{Comparison, comparison} section!
Simplicity, cryptographic security, sneakernet compatibility and easy
integration with current SMTP servers are the reasons.

@menu
* Comparison::
* Use cases::
* Workflow::
* Installation::
* Configuration::
* Commands::
* Spool directory: Spool.
* Log format: Log.
* Packet format: Packet.
* Sync protocol: Sync.
* Contacts and feedback: Contacts.
* Copying conditions: Copying.
@end menu

@include comparison.texi
@include usecases.texi
@include workflow.texi
@include install.texi
@include cfg.texi
@include cmds.texi
@include spool.texi
@include log.texi
@include pkt.texi
@include sp.texi
@include contacts.texi

@node Copying
@unnumbered Copying conditions

@insertcopying
@verbatiminclude fdl.txt

@bye
