@node Installation
@unnumbered Installation

NNCP should run on any POSIX-compatible operating system with file
systems supporting directory and filename's length up to 57 characters.

NNCP is written on @url{https://golang.org/, Go} programming language
and you have to install Go compiler (1.7+ version is highly
recommended). @emph{Make} (BSD and GNU ones are fine) is recommended for
convenient building. @url{https://www.gnu.org/software/texinfo/,
Texinfo} is used for building documentation.

Included required libraries:

@multitable @columnfractions .50 .50
@headitem Library @tab Licence
@item @code{github.com/dustin/go-humanize} @tab MIT
@item @code{github.com/flynn/noise} @tab BSD 3-Clause
@item @code{github.com/go-check/check} @tab BSD 2-Clause
@item @code{github.com/go-yaml/yaml} @tab Apache License 2.0 and MIT
@item @code{github.com/minio/blake2b-simd} @tab Apache License 2.0
@item @code{golang.org/x/crypto} @tab BSD 3-Clause
@item @code{golang.org/x/net} @tab BSD 3-Clause
@item @code{golang.org/x/sys} @tab BSD 3-Clause
@end multitable

Get @ref{Tarballs, the tarball}, check its
@ref{Integrity, integrity and authenticity} and run @command{make}.
@emph{nncp-*} binaries will be built in the current directory:

@verbatim
% wget http://www.nncpgo.org/download/nncp-0.1.tar.xz
% wget http://www.nncpgo.org/download/nncp-0.1.tar.xz.sig
% gpg --verify nncp-0.1.tar.xz.sig nncp-0.1.tar.xz
% tar xf nncp-0.1.tar.xz
% make -C nncp-0.1 all
@end verbatim

There is @code{install} target respecting @env{DESTDIR}. It will
install binaries and info-documentation.

@menu
* Prepared tarballs: Tarballs.
* Tarballs integrity check: Integrity.
* Development source code: Sources.
@end menu

@include download.texi
@include integrity.texi
@include sources.texi
