@node News
@unnumbered News

See also this page @ref{Новости, on russian}.

@node Release 2.1
@section Release 2.1
@itemize
@item
Ability to override @option{via} configuration option for destination
node via @option{-via} command line option for following commands:
@command{nncp-file}, @command{nncp-freq}, @command{nncp-mail}.
@end itemize

@node Release 2.0
@section Release 2.0
@itemize
@item
@strong{Incompatible} encrypted/eblob packet format changes. Older
versions are not supported.
@item
Twofish encryption algorithm is replaced with ChaCha20. It is much more
faster. One cryptographic primitive less.
@item
HKDF-BLAKE2b-256 KDF algorithm is replaced with BLAKE2Xb XOF. Yet
another cryptographic primitive less (assuming that BLAKE2X is nearly
identical to BLAKE2).
@end itemize

@node Release 1.0
@section Release 1.0
@itemize
@item
@strong{Incompatible} encrypted packet format changes. Older versions
are not supported.
@item
@command{nncp-bundle} command can either create stream of encrypted
packets, or digest it. It is useful when dealing with stdin/stdout based
transmission methods (like writing to CD-ROM without intermediate
prepared ISO image and working with tape drives).
@item
@command{nncp-toss} is able to create @file{.seen} files preventing
duplicate packets receiving.
@item
Single background checksum verifier worker is allowed in
@command{nncp-call}. This is helpful when thousands of small inbound
packets could create many goroutines.
@item
Ability to override path to spool directory and logfile through either
command line argument, or environment variable.
@item
@command{nncp-rm} is able to delete outbound/inbound, @file{.seen},
@file{.part}, @file{.lock} and temporary files.
@end itemize

@node Release 0.12
@section Release 0.12
@itemize
@item
Sendmail command is called with @env{NNCP_SENDER} environment variable.
@end itemize

@node Release 0.11
@section Release 0.11
@itemize
@item
@command{nncp-stat}'s command output is sorted by node name.
@end itemize

@node Release 0.10
@section Release 0.10
@itemize
@item
@command{nncp-freq}'s @file{DST} argument is optional now. Last
@file{SRC} path's element will be used by default.
@end itemize

@node Release 0.9
@section Release 0.9
@itemize
@item
Fix @option{-rx}/@option{-tx} arguments processing in
@command{nncp-call} command. They were ignored.
@end itemize

@node Release 0.8
@section Release 0.8
@itemize
@item
Little bugfix in @command{nncp-file} command, where @option{-minsize}
option for unchunked transfer was not in KiBs, but in bytes.
@end itemize

@node Release 0.7
@section Release 0.7
@itemize
@item
Ability to feed @command{nncp-file} from stdin, that uses an encrypted
temporary file for that.

@item
Chunked files transmission appeared with corresponding
@command{nncp-reass} command and @option{freqchunked} configuration file
entry. Useful for transferring big files over small storage devices.

@item
@option{freqminsize} configuration file option, analogue to
@option{-minsize} one.

@item
@command{nncp-xfer}'s @option{-force} option is renamed to
@option{-mkdir} for clarity.

@item
@option{-minsize} option is specified in KiBs, not bytes, for
convenience.

@item
@command{nncp-newcfg} command is renamed to @command{nncp-cfgnew},
and @command{nncp-mincfg} to @command{nncp-cfgmin} -- now they have
common prefix and are grouped together for convenience.

@item
@command{nncp-cfgenc} command appeared, allowing configuration file
encryption/decryption, for keeping it safe without any either OpenPGP or
similar tools usage.

@item
Cryptographic libraries (dependencies) are updated.
@end itemize

@node Release 0.6
@section Release 0.6
@itemize
@item Small @command{nncp-rm} command appeared.
@item Cryptographic libraries (dependencies) are updated.
@end itemize

@node Release 0.5
@section Release 0.5
@itemize
@item Trivial small fix in default niceness level of @command{nncp-file}
and @command{nncp-freq} commands.
@end itemize

@node Release 0.4
@section Release 0.4
@itemize
@item Small fix in @command{nncp-call}, @command{nncp-caller},
@command{nncp-daemon}: they can segmentation fail sometimes (no data is
lost).
@item @command{nncp-newnode} renamed to @command{nncp-newcfg} -- it is
shorter and more convenient to use.
@item @command{nncp-mincfg} command appeared: helper allowing to create
minimalistic stripped down configuration file without private keys,
that is useful during @command{nncp-xfer} usage.
@end itemize

@node Release 0.3
@section Release 0.3
Fixed compatibility with Go 1.6.

@node Release 0.2
@section Release 0.2
@itemize
@item @strong{Incompatible} packet's format change (magic number is
changed too): size field is encrypted and is not send in plaintext
anymore.
@item @option{-minsize} option gives ability to automatically pad
outgoing packets to specified minimal size.
@item @command{nncp-daemon} and
@command{nncp-call}/@command{nncp-caller} always check new @emph{tx}
packets appearance in the background while connected. Remote side is
immediately notified.
@item @option{-onlinedeadline} option gives ability to configure timeout
of inactivity of online connection, when it could be disconnected. It
could be used to keep connection alive for a long time.
@item @option{-maxonlinetime} option gives ability to set maximal
allowable online connection aliveness time.
@item @command{nncp-caller} command appeared: cron-ed TCP daemon caller.
@item @command{nncp-pkt} command can decompress the data.
@end itemize
