@node Spool
@unnumbered Spool directory

Spool directory holds @ref{Encrypted, encrypted packets} received from
remote nodes and queued for sending to them. It has the following
example structure:

@example
spool/tmp/
spool/2WHB...OABQ/rx.lock
spool/2WHB...OABQ/rx/5ZIB...UMKW.part
spool/2WHB...OABQ/tx.lock
spool/2WHB...OABQ/toss.lock
spool/BYRR...CG6Q/rx.lock
spool/BYRR...CG6Q/rx/MLZ6...Q3SQ.nock
spool/BYRR...CG6Q/rx/
spool/BYRR...CG6Q/tx.lock
spool/BYRR...CG6Q/tx/AQUT...DGNT.seen
spool/BYRR...CG6Q/tx/NSYY...ZUU6
spool/BYRR...CG6Q/tx/VCSR...3VXX.seen
spool/BYRR...CG6Q/tx/ZI5U...5RRQ
@end example

@itemize

@item Except for @file{tmp}, all other directories are Base32-encoded
node identifiers (@file{2WHB...OABQ}, @file{BYRR...CG6Q} in our example).

@item Each node subdirectory has @file{rx} (received, partially received
and currently unprocessed packets) and @file{tx} (for outbound packets)
directories.

@item Each @file{rx}/@file{tx} directory contains one file per encrypted
packet. Its filename is Base32 encoded BLAKE2b hash of the contents. So
it can be integrity checked at any time.

@item @file{5ZIB...UMKW.part} is partially received file from
@file{2WHB...OABQ} node. @file{tx} directory can not contain partially
written files -- they are moved atomically from @file{tmp}.

@item @file{rx} can contain received, but currently integrity unchecked
files with @file{.nock} extension. It is completely the same as an
ordinary encrypted packets, but its integrity after online download was
not done. After successful checksum verification, @file{.nock} extension
is trimmed.

@item When @ref{nncp-toss} utility is called with @option{-seen} option,
it will create empty @file{XXX.seen} files, telling that some kind of
packet was already tossed sometime.

@item Only one process can work with @file{rx}/@file{tx} directories at
once, so there are corresponding lock files.

@end itemize
