@node nncp-rm
@pindex nncp-rm
@section nncp-rm

@example
$ nncp-rm [options] -tmp
$ nncp-rm [options] -lock
$ nncp-rm [options] @{-all|-node NODE@} -part
$ nncp-rm [options] @{-all|-node NODE@} -seen
$ nncp-rm [options] @{-all|-node NODE@} -nock
$ nncp-rm [options] @{-all|-node NODE@} -hdr
$ nncp-rm [options] @{-all|-node NODE@} -area
$ nncp-rm [options] @{-all|-node NODE@} [-rx] [-tx]
$ nncp-rm [options] @{-all|-node NODE@} -pkt PKT
@end example

This command is aimed to delete various files from your spool directory:

@itemize

@item If @option{-tmp} option is specified, then it will delete all
temporary files in @file{spool/tmp} directory. Files may stay in it when
commands like @command{@ref{nncp-file}} fail for some reason.

@item If @option{-lock} option is specified, then all @file{.lock} files
will be deleted in your spool directory.

@item If @option{-pkt} option is specified, then @file{PKT} packet (its
Base32 name) will be deleted. This is useful when you see some packet
failing to be processed.

@item When either @option{-rx} or @option{-tx} options are specified
(maybe both of them), then delete all packets from that given queues.

@item @option{-part} option deletes @file{.part}ly downloaded files.

@item @option{-seen} option deletes @file{seen/} files. But it does not
apply to @ref{Multicast, multicast areas} ones!

@item @option{-nock} option deletes non-checksummed (non-verified)
@file{.nock} files.

@item @option{-hdr} option deletes cached @file{hdr/} files.

@item @option{-area} option deletes seen files in @file{area/} subdirectories.

@end itemize

@option{-dryrun} option just prints what will be deleted.

You can also select files that only have modification date older than specified
@option{-older} time units (@code{10s} (10 seconds), @code{5m} (5 minutes),
@code{12h} (12 hours), @code{2d} (2 days)).
